Dev fenland trajectory agent (#1179)
cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar: Agents/FenlandTrajectoryAgent/README.md

To spin up the stack, create `postgis_password` and `geoserver_password` files in the Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager/inputs/secrets/ directory. Detailed guidance can be found in the [Stack Manager README]. Thereafter，navigate to `Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager` and run the following command there from a *bash* terminal, Once the stack is up, the agent can be started within the stack autimatically, and will be available in the stack's drop-down container menu.

```

./stack.sh start <STACK NAME> <PORT>

```

# 4. Using the Agent

The agent will automatically register a task upon startup to assimilate the data from the target GPS folder into the Knowledge Graph (KG). This background task can be triggered via an HTTP request after the agent has started, accessible at http://localhost:{Port}/fenland-trajectory-agent. Please replace {Port} with the numerical value of the port on which your stack is running.

## Provided functionality

The files for example http request are displayed at [SendHTTP] folder.

> <center>-------- Data Instantiation ------------</center>

Reviewer: Delete this line, it serves no purpose.

> - Post request to load and preprocess all GPS trajectory files 

Reviewer: You make reference to four processes here, "load", "preprocess", "process", and "instantiate". Can you add a paragraph here that explains what these are/do, and also clarify whether or not one must run "load and preprocess" before one can run "process and instantiate"?

Author: Thanks for raising this concern! I have added explanations for each process, describing their functionality to help the reader understand the execution order and principles. Please check the commit at [865d00cb10df9f472b2f2163b1878f1ac696be4c]
[72391e72281647f2f1fe70a6d2712bcec913e136]

> ./gpstasks/fenlandtrajectoryagent/load_and_preprocess

- Post request to instantiate all GPS trajectory data to KG

> > ./gpstasks/fenlandtrajectoryagent/process_and_instantiate

Reviewer: Please delete these two paths/routes here. They are no longer correct anyway. It is best to simply refer the reader to the http/curl files.

Author: These two routes were removed at commit [865d00cb10df9f472b2f2163b1878f1ac696be4c]

> Additionally, services above can be triggered using Client URL (CURL) from a bash terminal. This method provides a straightforward and scriptable way to interact with the agent. An example CURL command used to load the GPS trajectory files is displayed in [CURL commands folder]. 

Reviewer: Please move this bit right next to the http bit above.

[Java Development Kit version >=11]: https://adoptium.net/en-GB/temurin/releases/?version=11
[JDBC driver]: https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/ 
[JPS_BASE_LIB]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/main/JPS_BASE_LIB
[personal access token]: https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token
[py4jps]: https://pypi.org/project/py4jps/#description
[Stack Manager]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/main/Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager
[spin up the stack]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/blob/main/Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager/README.md
[Stack-Clients]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/dev-MetOfficeAgent-withinStack/Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-clients
[TheWorldAvatar]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar
[Upload SSH key]: https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/how-to/add-ssh-keys/to-existing-droplet/
[virtual environment]: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html
[VSCode via SSH]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/ssh

<!-- files -->
[Dockerfile]: ./Dockerfile
[docker compose file]: ./docker-compose.yml

> [gps_target_folder]: ./agent/raw_data/gps_target_folder

Author: Thank you for the thorough review. I did consider option 2) first, and modifying it would affect both Flask app and the instantiation code. Please allow me to implement a temporary measure using option 1) in commit [0fc61f295e84eaf02e11c29b349077ca237f5c5a], so the URL no longer returns a 404. I am still debugging the changes required in option 2).

[resources]: ./resources
[README]: ./README.md
[FenlandTrajectoryAgent.json]: ./stack-manager-input-config-service/
[stack manager configuration service directory]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/main/Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager/inputs/config/services
[stack manager configuration directory]: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/main/Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager/inputs/config/
[CURL commands folder]: ./example-requests/curl

> [SendHTTP]: ./example-requests/SendHTTTP/

Reviewer: Please remove the third T from "HTTTP" (and don't forget to actually rename the folder!).

It is highly recommended to manually configure this environment following the instructions provided at this link: https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/blob/dev-pydantic-rdflib/JPS_BASE_LIB/python_wrapper/docs/examples/additional_java_lib.md.
&nbsp;
# 1. Agent Setup

This section outlines the minimum requirements for building and deploying the Docker image.

## 1.1 Prerequisites

### *1) Place the GPS trajectory in the target position*

In this case, the format of the GPS data table is .csv. Each table consists of a series of record points, each point containing six essential pieces of information. They are UTC date, UTC time, longitude, latitude, speed, and the distance between the current record point and the position corresponding to the previous record point. After preparing all files, please place them in `./FenlandTrajectoryAgent/agent/raw_data/gps_target_data

folder.

### *2) The environment variables used by the agent container*

> Before building and deploying the Docker image, several key properties need to be set in the [Docker compose file] (further details and defaults are provided in the file):

Reviewer 2: Instructions unclear on what needs to be specified for the configuration to run the agent. If the image is pulled from [Github repo](https://github.com/orgs/cambridge-cares/packages/container/package/fenland_trajectory_agent), there shouldn't be anything required to specifying and buidling of docker image

bash
# Agent configuration

> # Stack & Stack Clients configuration

Reviewer 2: The layout of this looks odd on Github web

STACK_NAME            # Name of stack to which agent shall be deployed
NAMESPACE             # Blazegraph namespace into which to instantiate data
DATABASE              # PostGIS/PostgreSQL database name (default: `postgres`)
LAYERNAME             # Geoserver layer name, Also table name for geospatial features in PostGIS
GEOSERVER_WORKSPACE   

### *3) Accessing Github's Container registry*

While building the Docker image of the agent, it also gets pushed to the [Github container registry]. Access needs to be ensured beforehand via your github [personal access token], which must have a `scope` that [allows you to publish and install packages]. To log in to the [Github container registry] simply run the following command to establish the connection and provide the access token when prompted:

docker login ghcr.io -u <github_username>
<github_personal_access_token>

&nbsp;
## 1.2 Spinning up the stack

> Navigate to `Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager` and run the following command there from a bash terminal. To [spin up the stack], both a `postgis_password` and `geoserver_password` file need to be created in the `stack-manager/inputs/secrets/` directory (see detailed guidance following the provided link). There are several [common stack scripts] provided to manage the stack:

Reviewer 2: As discussed this Monday, the FenlandTrajectoryAgent's stack-manager-config/inputs/config/services is missing. I am currently unable to run the agent.

Reviewer 2: It would also be good to merge your branch into main to verify that it works with the latest version of stack-manager

Reviewer: I'm sure you meant "merge main into your branch".

Simply execute the following command in the same folder as this `README` to build the required [Stack-Clients] resource and spin up the production version of the agent (from a bash terminal). The stack `<STACK NAME>` is the name of an already running stack.

# Buildings the agent Docker image and pushing it
bash ./stack.sh build

# Deploying the agent (using pulled image)
bash ./stack.sh start <STACK_NAME>

&nbsp;
# 2. Using the Agent
 
## Provided functionality

The agent will automatically register a task upon startup to assimilate the data in our target GPS folder into the KG. This background task can be triggered by an HTTP request after the agent starts up, accessible at http://localhost:5000/. 

<center>-------- Data Instantiation ------------</center>

> - Post request to instantiate all electricity consumption/meter data to KG

Reviewer 2: Would be good to include the full curl request to start the agent

> - Post request to instantiate all electricity consumption/meter data to KG

Reviewer 2: Does trajectory agent include electricity consumption and meter data as well?

> /fenlandtrajectoryagent/process_and_instantiate

> 

Reviewer 2: Instructions missing on how to view the trajectories on TWA-VF 
1) How to access the visualisation? 
2) Is it populated on the data.json? (if yes, data.json is missing too)
3) Index.html is missing too

Reviewer 2: I am unsure if this agent is part of a bigger stack, if yes it would be good to indicate where it is.

Else, it would be good to have a folder `stack-manager` that contains all the required config in spinning up the stack-manager, similar to what we did in 
[Pirmasens](https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/main/Deploy/stacks/Pirmasens)
[UK Flood Routing](https://github.com/cambridge-cares/TheWorldAvatar/tree/main/web/kingslynn-flood-routing)

To spin up the stack, create `postgis_password` and `geoserver_password` files in the Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager/inputs/secrets/ directory. Detailed guidance can be found in the [Stack Manager README]. Thereafter，navigate to `Deploy/stacks/dynamic/stack-manager` and run the following command there from a *bash* terminal, Once the stack is up, the agent can be started within the stack autimatically, and will be available in the stack's drop-down container menu.

```

./stack.sh start <STACK NAME> <PORT>

```

# 4. Using the Agent

The agent will automatically register a task upon startup to assimilate the data from the target GPS folder into the Knowledge Graph (KG). This background task can be triggered via an HTTP request after the agent has started, accessible at http://localhost:{Port}/fenland-trajectory-agent. Please replace {Port} with the numerical value of the port on which your stack is running.

## Functionality Description

The operation of this agent involves four steps: **load**, **preprocess**, **process**, and **instantiate**. Here is a brief description of each:

> - **Load**: This step involves setting up a loop to read all GPS trajectory files in batch. Each file is processed one by one, moving through all the following steps before proceeding to the next file.

Author: Thanks, description of "load" has been removed. Please check the commit at [943d8bd096cc8c1f9b2293a418b30005e7343c1d]
For relevant changes of  URL route, and the example request files, please check the commit at [5699741c6c6fd875aaaa120634e78ec41499c32a]

> - **Preprocess**: In this step, the raw file is examined to ensure the presence of essential columns (UTC Date, UTC Time, Speed, Heading, Height, Distance, Latitude, and Longitude) and to handle any empty rows or columns. Additionally, the format of the time-related columns will be checked and converted to [ISO 8601] if needed.

Author: I added relevant description for it (During this phase...,a temporary dataframe, ...without altering the original files."
Please check the commit at [943d8bd096cc8c1f9b2293a418b30005e7343c1d] for details

- **Process**: During this step, the information inside the preprocessed file is further organised to align with the requirements of the instantiation. This mainly involves creating geometry classes for the trajectory, importing namespaces, generating IRIs, and restructuring the raw data into non-time-series lists (concepts and relations in trajectory data) and time-series lists. These will act as inputs for different instantiation clients.

> - **Instantiate**: This final step involves creating instances of the data in the knowledge graph and relational database, making it available for queries and analytics. It mainly includes deploying the [TimeSeriesClient] with time-series inputs and utilizing the tailored [KGClient] class for non-time-series attributes. Unlike an encapsulated tool, the [KGClient] class is adapted for each project, providing essential functionalities for interacting with the knowledge graph. These functionalities mainly include executing SPARQL queries and updates. All of these are detailed in the [knowledge graph operations guidance].

Author: Thanks! This has been removed. please check at [943d8bd096cc8c1f9b2293a418b30005e7343c1d]

> 

Author: Thanks for your insights. This clarification has been added.
Please check [943d8bd096cc8c1f9b2293a418b30005e7343c1d]

## Example HTTP Requests

> To ensure concise and smooth execution, the aforementioned steps have been combined into two HTTP requests:

Reviewer: Please delete all text under this heading - I don't find it useful, I'm afraid. All that is required here is to say something like "Example HTTP requests are provided as http files [link] and curl requests [link].".

Author: Thanks for your comments. The description for example http has condensed. Please check commit [4608221ac783eab25b09e416aa48cf0eb28837c6] and [80e27d1b87398f1d659fc37ea8717e976f58537f]

# 1. Description

The `Fenland Trajectory Agent` is a specialized tool for batch instantiation of structured time-series GPS trajectory data. This agent is capable of receiving HTTP POST requests or CURL commands to load GPS trajectory files, which it subsequently instantiates into triples before uploading them into knowledge graphs.

> Presently, the agent focuses on data from the Fenland Study to analyze the interaction between GPS trajectories and environmental features within the context of a digital twin. Example data can be found at Dropbox/CoMo_shared/_Projects/c4e-AI-for-public-health/sample_gps_data.csv. By default, the data instantiated from the Fenland Study using this agent encompasses Speed, Height, Distance, Heading, Latitude, and Longitude. This method is also applicable to other categories of time-series structured data in Febland Study by replacing or adding the relevant column names. The information instantiated into the knowledge graph adheres to the Ontology of Devices [OntoDevice] in [TheWorldAvatar] project. The instantiation process is executed based on the [TimeSeriesClient]. This agent is implemented as a Docker container, designed for deployment within a stack managed by the [Stack Manager]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presently, the agent focuses on data from the Fenland Study to analyze the interaction between GPS trajectories and environmental features within the context of a digital twin. Example data can be found at Dropbox/CoMo_shared/_Projects/c4e-AI-for-public-health/sample_gps_data.csv. By default, the data instantiated from the Fenland Study using this agent encompasses Speed, Height, Distance, Heading, Latitude, and Longitude. This method is also applicable to other categories of time-series structured data in the Fenland Study by replacing or adding the relevant column names. The information instantiated into the knowledge graph adheres to the Ontology of Devices [OntoDevice] in [TheWorldAvatar] project. The instantiation process is executed based on the [TimeSeriesClient]. This agent is implemented as a Docker container, designed for deployment within a stack managed by the [Stack Manager]
```

# 2. Agent Setup

This section specifies the minimum requirements to build and deploy the Docker image of this agent.

## 2.1 Environment Variables

> Before building and deploying the Docker image, several key properties is demanded to be set in the [docker compose file] (further details and defaults are provided in the file):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before building and deploying the Docker image, several key properties need to be set in the [docker compose file] (further details and defaults are provided in the file):
```

## Provided functionality

The files for example http request are displayed at [SendHTTP] folder.

<center>-------- Data Instantiation ------------</center>

- Post request to load and preprocess all GPS trajectory files 
> ./gpstasks/fenlandtrajectoryagent/load_and_preprocess

- Post request to instantiate all GPS trajectory data to KG
> ./gpstasks/fenlandtrajectoryagent/process_and_instantiate

Additionally, services above can be triggered using [CURL commands] from a bash terminal. This method provides a straightforward and scriptable way to interact with the agent. An example CURL command used to load the GPS trajectory files is displayed as follows. In this example, the stack is assumed at port 3840

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:3840/fenland-trajectory-agent/gpstasks/fenlandtrajectoryagent/load_and_preprocess \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \

>      -d '{"file_path":"/app/agent/raw_data/gps_target_folder"}'

Reviewer: Rather than repeating the content of your `sh` and/or `http` files in this readme (and thus running the risk that these will get out of sync), I would recommend simply pointing to the location of these files here.

# 1. Description

> The `Fenland Trajectory Agent` is a specialized tool for batch instantiation of structured time-series GPS trajectory data. This agent is capable of receiving HTTP POST requests or CURL commands to load GPS trajectory files, which it subsequently instantiates into triples before uploading them into the knowledge graphss.

Reviewer: Can you remove the two extra "s"s? It should read "the knowledge graph". That was kind of the key point in the previous change request...

Author: I'm very sorry for the oversight. I had multiple windows open and committed the wrong change previously. I've corrected it and please refer to commit [1a9507925790a42d6258ead3a2db7cb32a965c8f]

Reviewer: For the record, this has now been addressed in commit c209f9d1490df8cc9bb8360f6dc67a77ed640f9c.

- Post request to instantiate all GPS trajectory data to KG
> ./gpstasks/fenlandtrajectoryagent/process_and_instantiate

> Additionally, services above can be triggered using Client URL (CURL) from a bash terminal. This method provides a straightforward and scriptable way to interact with the agent. An example CURL command used to load the GPS trajectory files is displayed in [CURL commands folder]. In this example, the stack is assumed at port 3840.

Reviewer: Please remove the sentence "In this example, the stack is assumed at port 3840.". It is redundant and bound to become out of sync.

Author: Yes! This was addressed at commit [c1f26e82d20cd41106365111f6517932562651ba]
